This is one of a multiple videos discussing the troubleshooting of routing information protocol in this
typology we've been told that a broader one is not able to paying the loopback of wrote a full selects
let's verify that enable paying $4.4 for.
It looks like the pings are failing.
So we've been given correct information that the network is not working.
So now let's troubleshoot show on the route.
We can see that we are receiving a route from a router 10 up 1 at 1 to 2 via gigabit 00.
So we are receiving information about network 2.0 that separates era from router to.
So this is a loop back of brought it to Per our typology and we can ping the loopback of to show IP
protocols shows us that we are running the routing protocol on the local router and we are writing for
these two networks.
The loopback of Route 1 and rip is enabled on the gigabit zero interface and we've received routes from
10 1 1 2 which again we can see in the writing table.
Notice however that we don't see forward forward forward for in the writing table we do see this network
10 1 2 0.
So can we ping tendered one or two to one.
Yes we can.
In other words we can get to this network on route to.
I'm going to turn off IP domain look up to speed up trace route and then I'm going to trace to quadruple
for this is just to show you the trace route can be used.
But in this case it's actually not even going to leave the local router because we don't have a gateway
of last resort set and network for does not appear in the writing table.
So the local router doesn't even know where to forward the packet.
We can see that by using the command debug IP packet and doing the trace again notice we see in the
output that the packet is unreadable the local router doesn't know where to forward the packet so I'll
turn off debugging on Grada one.
Let's have a look at Route to show IP protocols verifies that RP is running on the local router network
to a network 10 are being advertised by this router.
We only see one gateway.
In other words we are only receiving routing information from router one.
We don't see routing information from router to let's do a debug.
Remember the debug debug IP rep and not just hit enter here.
We're seeing that the local Rodda is sending out a version to update to the loopback using the well-known
multicast address for up to 2 4 0 0 9.
We see it sending out an update via gigabit or 0 1 we are receiving a update on gigabit 0 0.
But notice this output ignored version to update from bad source 10 1 3 1 1 gigabyte 0 1 here's some
more debugs.
Can you see the problem in the debug
notice here.
Ignore the version to update from a bad source.
10 1 3 1 on gigabit 0 1 it ignored an update from itself on the loopback.
That would be correct but we are receiving updates on kickabout 0 1 gigabit 0 1 on 2 is configured with
an IP address of 10 1 to 1 per our diagram and Rodda 3 should be configured with this IP address 10
1 to 2.
So let's verify IP addresses show IP interface brief
this IP address is configured on gigabit.
Is there a one that looks right and it will just confirm the details.
Using a show run that looks good.
On broader 3 show IP interface brief interface gigabit 0 1 is configured with an IP address of 10 1
to 2 and gigabit 00 is configured with this IP address.
That's not correct per diagram so let's change that no IP address on the gigabit 00 interface no IP
address on that could give it to 0 1 interface.
Go back to Gigabit to 0 0 IP address 10 1 to 2 gigabit 0 or 1 IP address 10 1 3 1
paying 10 to 1 2 to 1.
Ping works show IP route.
We've now learnt about network 10 1 3 0 from 10 1 to 2 so it looks like it's not working.
If I do a debug we should see that we are receiving updates from router 3 and no longer getting a error
on the de-bunk.
But while we waiting for that show IP ROFFT brought a one week getting network 10:01 3 0 in the writing
table so we should be able to ping 10 1 3 1 which we can and we can ping 10 1 3 2 can we Pinga loop
back to 4.
Yes we can.
So we've successfully solved the problem in the debug.
Notice we are now seeing an update received on gigabit 00 and on gigabit 0 1 the local router is learning
the brats from both neighbors show IP Rupp database allows us to see the routes in the database.
We can see as an example that network 4 is in the database and I'll just pause this debug.
We also see the loop back of Rodda 3.
We see the loopback of brought a one so as an example we can ping the loop back of root of one of to
which is ourselves wrote a three and wrote a four.
So we've successfully solved the problem in this network.
Routers need to be in the same subnet for them to exchange Rantz with one another.
In this example the IP addresses on gigabit to 0 0 and 0 1 was swapped around serrata 3 updates were
being ignored by rather too.
I hope you enjoyed this video if it's been of benefit to you.
Please like it and please subscribe to my YouTube channel.
I wish you all the very best.